Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in this lecture, we're going to talk about what are
some of the best practices with regards to talking
to your customers and running customer interviews.
Now, you need to talk to your customers in order to
make, create products, that is unavoidable, but in
order to collect the right information and get the
right signals for your product, you need to know how
to talk to your customers and what not to do.
Now, customer interviews are not as intuitive as you think.
You might think that the point of a customer
interview is to just sit down, have a conversation,
talk to them about your product, see how they react,
pitch them on whatever new feature or idea
you're rolling around in your head.
Now, that's not even remotely true.
The only thing that was true in that is that
you are sitting down what the customer.
I would hardly call it a conversation.
It is an interview.
Now, what's the actual purpose of running a customer interview?
Well, it's to get the most real and accurate information
as you can from your customer.
If you just sit down and start rattling off pitches,
and if you domineer the conversation or act the
same way as you would in any other normal conversation,
you will not get accurate or real information.
So, I'm going to go over for applicable best practices to
help you understand how to run a customer interview
and what you should do.
First of all, let's tackle the misconception that when you run a customer interview your topic is going to be your product.
It's actually not. When you talk to your customers, you want to
talk to them about their problems and their needs.
You rarely - if ever - will talk about the solution.
If you're talking about your solution directly with the customer,
the information you're going to get
it's going to be limited and it's not going to help you
understand the why, the deeper level of why they
make certain decisions, why they think a certain way.
There's a great quote about talking to your customers,
and that's "Customers might not know what they
want, but they can't hide what they need."
So, when you talk about the solution, you're talking about
what they want, and they often don't know what
exactly they want or how in an accurate way to
process that information or describe it.
But their needs are as simple as it gets.
Anyone can talk about what problems they have or what they need.
And we care, because those conversations are much,
much richer than a conversation about the surface of
a solution and whether or not it looks nice.
The second thing you need to understand is that
you are here to ask questions and not really direct
conversation or give your own opinions or your own thoughts.
In general, the ratio between how much a customer
is going to talk and how much you talk in one of these
interviews, it should be 95% or 90% to 10% or 5%.
It is very, very skewed.
You want to set this up so that you ask one question
and that question leads to your customer talking
about multiple things in detail.
The point here is that you want to get them to talk.
One of my favorite rules about customer development
or customer interviews is "the point is to get off
point." Basically what that means is that, don't worry
about whether or not they're answering the question
the exact way that you expected them to or going
onto the topics that you wanted them to.
You have to embrace the idea of tangents. Sometimes you'll ask
a customer a question, they'll answer it or they might not,
and then they'll go off on their own and start telling
a story, or an anecdote, or something that's entirely
not related. And you've got to understand that tangents
are good, sometimes they're even goldmines.
Sometimes the best ideas come from your customers
going off the cuff, off the record, saying things
that you never would have thought to ask.
The third thing is make sure that you create an
environment where they feel comfortable talking.
That means creating a rapport with them.
Don't run a customer interview where you just sit down with them and immediately start asking them detailed questions.
Make sure that they are comfortable with you.
Make sure that you at least feign some effort
that you are interested in them
outside of this interview, make sure that you're comfortable
in conversation before you actually start.
Along those lines, don't ask them questions that would
be hard for them to answer in person, or make them
feel awkward or nervous to answer in person.
Also, when they give you negative feedback, don't react negatively.
Don't defend the product or the idea that you were projecting.
When they give you negative feedback, they're testing you.
And if you respond negatively, that has
a chilling effect on the rest of the interview.
They're much less likely to give you truthful, honest
information in the future, because they don't want
to have the confrontation or the argument.
When you respond in a neutral, non-judgmental way, they all
then realize that it's okay to tell the truth.
The last thing is don't force these conversations, try to guide them.
Depending on what type of interview you're doing,
whether it's exploratory, validation, satisfaction, or efficiency,
you probably have a focus in mind, you probably have
some questions you want to answer and some topics
that you want to spend time on.
But don't be forceful and forcing them onto that subject.
If you allow them to graze in areas that
they actually care about, and then naturally guide them
in the direction of what you want to talk about,
you'll end up in a situation where they give you a lot more information and they feel a lot more comfortable.
You also don't want to risk the chance that, in the process
of getting to the topic that you wanted to
talk about, they could have brought up many, many
interesting things you never would have thought of.
So, if you keep those things in mind, you will have a
much better chance of running a successful interview.
And if you get to a point where you're having trouble
talking to the customer, you don't know what to ask,
you don't really know what's going to get them
to respond in a more open, fruitful way,
use this one that I use all the time,
my favorite sentence any time I'm stuck,
I don't even know what to say, is
"That's interesting. Tell me more!"
And if you ever find yourself lost in this process, not sure
what direction is up and what direction is down,
just keep in mind the five W framework - I'm sure you've
heard of it, but you probably haven't heard of
it used in the context of product management - which is,
What? Why? Who? When? and Where? That is,
you are always, as a product manager, striving to answer
the five questions and get a better, deeper understanding
of what they mean for your product and your customer.
And these questions are, "Who are your customers?"
"What are their habits?"
"When do they use your product?"
"Where do they need your product?"
The last and most important one:
"Why do they need your product?"
Customer development and customer interviews are really just a process of filling in the gaps of your knowledge of the five W's.
The more conversations you have with your customers,
the more you'll be able to fill in the five W's
and have a better, more holistic understanding of what
your product is, its impact, and why people are using it.
All right, guys.
Now that you know some of the bigger picture of what
makes these interviews successful, what are they like,
what are you thinking about,
and how to keep your eye on the prize,
we're going to talk a little bit more about the specifics.
We're going to talk about good questions and bad questions.
They make a huge difference in your interviews.
All right, see you then.